And now,
what we wanna do is we've picked a file,
we've logged into the console,
that feels great, I guess.
I mean, I couldn't have done that
node because I couldn't have done
the file open dialog, but
you know what I mean, it's still like,
I wanna see this thing in the UI.
So now we got to figure out how to get
something from the main process and
send it on through to
the renderer process, right?
And this is where that beginning of this
inter-process communication comes through,
right, which is at any given point,
renderer processes can send messages.
Actually, they can call functions from the
main process, but it's actually a cheat.
And we'll see, I'll show you later.
But they can send messages to the main
process, and the main process
can reach out to a given process and
send a message back to it as well.
The goal here is to take [LAUGH] this
wonderful file that we have read and
get it to actually show up in the UI,
right?
And once we get this loop going,
then it's a gravy train at this point, but
right now, we're just logging into
the console, which doesn't feel great.
One thing I need to do is,
the main process can't just broadcast it
everywhere, it's got to be like,
what window would you like me to talk to?
Yes, we have one window, right?
But having a multi-window app is really
just like having some kinda hash
map where you're adding removing them or
an actual map in JavaScript.
But we wanna at least pretend there might
be more than one window one day, right?
And give ourselves the accoutrements
around that even if there is
not really a great use case for
this moment.
Yeah, I mean, you could argue we
could open up multiple of these.
And this is somewhat I have a version of
this that I use because I use a bunch of
custom remark and rehab plugins that
I wanna see as I'm viewing stuff.
I just don't have the editor in,
I have it watching a file and
stuff along those lines.
So it's a little bit different, but it's a
super useful tool that you can build your
own light saber as we do this together.
So we do need to tell a given browser
window that we have some content and
we would like to load it.
So what I'm gonna do is
since I have it in the show,
this is one of the reasons that I
gave myself the browser window, which
is when we trigger the showOpenDialogue,
we know what window asked for it, right?
So I'm also gonna say that that's gonna
be, and you can make it the second
argument, make it the first argument,
you do whatever you want.
I'm gonna say that that is
a BrowserWindow instance as well.
And so we'll have that,
we'll have the content, and so
we'll parse in that browserWindow as well.
So we let them pick a file, and
we know what window asks for the file,
we're gonna pass that to openFile along
with the file that they chose, right?
And this is nice because if we wanted to
trigger the ability to open a file and
send it to a window from somewhere else,
we could totally do that.
Could you break this up
into even smaller pieces?
You absolutely could and
might you eventually you probably will.
But the risk of just not refactoring
node code for the fun of it and
sticking to what we came here to learn,
I think this is good enough for right now.
So now, what I wanna do is
I want to be able to send
this to the browserWindow that asked for
it.
So you've got effectively
a way to think about this.
You've got the browser window, and
then you've got the actual web contents,
which I didn't mean to use
the definition in the explanation, but
I didn't tell you what the words were yet,
so it feels good.
So now we can do
browserwindow.webContents.
You can kinda see that the auto
complete is ruining the gag right here.
So we've got this file-opened, you can
call it openFile, whatever, this is just
a string, it has no meaning in Electron
other than the meaning that you give it.
It is like, what kind of channel are you
sending this message over, right?
Cuz later, you could have anything, right?
This can be any string whatsoever,
it depends on your application.
I'm gonna be really honest with you,
do I waffle back and forth between
past tense and present tense in the same
way that I do with Redux actions?
I do.
Today, this is the one that I have chosen,
right?
On a different day,
I might choose something different.
Cuz I might send one called openFile
from the renderer process when they hit
the button and file-opened.
Yeah, I don't know, you can name
this anything you want, go for it.
And I am gonna send
through the filePath and
the content of the file, right?
And you could do that in a different
order if you want as well.
I might actually choose to
send the content first.
In this case, and so
now I can send this information to
the browserWindow that asked for it.
But like most events in the DOM,
in JavaScript, in Node,
and what have you,
sending event when no one's listening for
it doesn't really matter, does it, right?
So the next step is to figure out
how to read this message, right?
And so
this is where the IPC pieces come in,
this is technically using
ipcMain in this case.
There is another library
called ipcRenderer.
Now, the one thing that I should warn
you about this is that is, again,
this is what I said before in that
diagram that we showed, which
is that preload script is technically
happening in the renderer process.
But it is the only one with access to
any kind of Electron nuances, right?
And so we don't have access to ipcRenderer
in the actual browser context,
we only have access to ipcRenderer
in the preload script.
Now, could I do stuff like
nodeIntegration: true?
I could,
I think I might actually go in here.
And that would give me all of
node in the Chrome instance.
And I could do require FS and
talk directly to databases
from the Chrome context.
That will get you the old behavior,
that was the way that you did
it up until a few years ago.
That said, I'm just gonna just pretend
this doesn't exist and pretend that we
actually care somewhat about security and
best practices on our time together.
So in this world,
preload has access to, I think,
the clipboard module,
ipcRenderer, the process object,
and the web contents that it's gonna load.
So we can get access to these
messages only in the preload script.
So let's go over there for now.
This code should make sense to anyone
who's looking at it presently.
Great, and so here we can import
ipcRenderer from electron, right?
And so we've got that in place,
and we can do an ipcRenderer,
.on, or Renderer.
.on, and again, as you look at
the function signature here,
it's any channel, right?
So, This is where you could get
a little fancier with the types
that we're gonna get to today,
because it's the same way with Redux
actions, you must spell that, right?
And you will wonder why your app
doesn't work, ask me how I know.
But generally speaking, so
we called it file-opened, and
if I look back at what I wrote,
I was parsing the content first and
the filePath second, right?
So we'll say event, Important note
here is that, as you can see,
Regardless of what we parse in
the message, the actual event is the first
followed by whatever you parse
through as the subsequent arguments.
So if we go back to the main things that
you parsed in the channel, content and
filePath, those become the second and
third arguments with the event
becoming the first argument, right?
And we know that those are,
at this moment, gonna be both strings.
String, and
I'm just gonna make this an underscore so
that ESLint leaves me alone about
the fact that I'm not using it.
Great, and let's just start with
the easiest possible thing right now,
which is just, we're just gonna
console.log the content in the filePath
to verify that we've got that full-on
connection between the two in place.
So let's go ahead and verify,
because you know what?
I don't wanna code more before I make
sure that everything I just wrote works.
Cool, so we can go pick a file, and
you can see that now we have access
to that in the renderer process.
So now we can read a file from Node and
just push it right on
through to the preload script
that can then theoretically
do stuff with the DOM, right?
Again, the preload script runs once.
It's kinda always still
running in the background, but
you have access to write code once.
And you can't like, okay, now that
they've done something else in the DOM,
go ahead and modify the preload script,
and you could with really,
really bad practices and hacking.
Yes, right.
Could you just take the entire
ipcRenderer and expose it down?
And could you go out of your way to create
as many security holes as possible?
Of course, you could, I'm not going to.
That's an exercise for
you when you have a tight deadline.
So at this point, we can write it to
the DOM at this point and be good.
Now, I have this just
because I don't wanna,
I could theoretically do
a document.getElementId.
I just stored all those selectors
in a second file called elements.
That should be lowercase, I think it's
renderer, renderer.
Cool, and all that,
it's an object with getters for
all of my different selectors, right?
Yes, I know that it has
the idea of MarkdownView.
I could do a document.queryselector,
we could do that as well.
But live coding me wanted
a little bit of autocomplete and
the known selectors, in this case,
so live coding me gets that.
So at this point, I can basically say,
I can do Elements.MarkdownView.
And I know that that's a TextArea
element cuz I use TypeScript.
So I can say that that
will equal the content.
And then I have another helper,
that's just renderMarkdown to HTML.
And that will put it in that second div,
right?
Cuz yes, you can watch me do DOM
manipulation, if you really want.
But I just wrote myself some
helper methods, and that will
run it through remark with a bunch of
different plugins, so on and so forth.
So now when we get the fileOpen message,
we take that content,
we put it in that text area, and
then we take the markdown turn HTML and
set the inner HTML of the div
over to the right side.
And ideally,
we should be able to open files.
And we've got that first
piece of triggering, I mean,
right now that fileOpenDialogue
happens no matter what.
And we'll see how to do
the other way of communication,
cuz then once we have the full loop,
now we're cooking with gas, as they say.
So we've got that, let's verify that it
works the way that I think it does before
I get too carried away with myself And
I will pick this one, and
you can see that now I can open files
in the file system, and
they render over in the DOM itself.